[MUSIC  PLAYING]
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Hello Polycasters,
and welcome to another
edition of The Meowni.ca Show.
Last time when I was
here, I was telling you
about how to get your forms
to care about your custom
elements.
And the thing that I showed
you was that you can basically
bind the property that
you care about in a custom
element to the value
of a hidden input,
because forms care about
hidden inputs and that's
how you can send
them to the server.
Today, I'm going to
still talk about forms,
but I'm going to
show you something
a little bit different.
Oftentimes, you might be the
one writing your custom element,
and all you need to do is just
make an input look prettier
because a native input
isn't the greatest.
So if you want to just do that,
the way you can get around it
is to just make a wrapper
that just styles your input,
and then your input is still
in the light DOM of the form,
so the form just sees it as if
it was a normal input and not
a custom element.
So let's go ahead and do this.
Over here I have a form,
just like I had before.
And it's styled.
It's exactly the same
demo as last time.
I'm still using httpbin,
and if you missed it,
I was telling you it's a thing
that just basically echoes back
all the headers and
all the arguments
that you sent it,
which is great.
So I have a form
and in it, I want
to do again the
birthday example, where
I'm going to ask you
to put in your birthday
and then I'm going to send you
something on your birthday.
So I'm going to have an
input here inside the form.
And these inputs
have a placeholder,
and they have a name and a date.
So if they have a name,
the form cares about them
and it's going to submit them.
So we can go ahead and
see what it looks like.
You have a really ugly input,
but if I type something in it,
by the magic of forms, I'm going
to send this day and the month
over there.
But that's not what I want.
I want to assemble
something that
says birthday so that my server
knows what to do with it.
So what I'm going
to go ahead and do
is first make these
inputs look great,
because they're
terrible right now.
And I'm going to wrap them
in a custom element that
is going to take a label
that we're going to display
and just style, basically,
all of these inputs
that get distributed to it.
So if you go over
here to our element,
I'm going to add
the label, and it's
going to come as a
property, as you saw.
So I'm going to actually
add it as a property
so that we can display it and
then a giant content block that
basically says,
display here everything
that you're passing me.
And again, the styles aren't
any different than before.
If you look at my shared
styles, the only thing
that I had to add was to also
style a distributed input,
not just like a Shadow
DOM input, like before.
So if you go back
to our form, I'm
going to actually import the
element so that it works.
And now, if I refresh my
page, bam, pretty input.
That's amazing.
But whatever data
you pass in it,
it's still in the wrong
format, because I didn't really
fix that in any way.
So we can go ahead and do
that by binding the value
that we get from a native event.
So I'm going to, over here,
get the value from the input,
and it's going to be whenever
the input fires an event,
I'm going to put in a
property called month
and I'm going to do the same
for the day, only call it a day.
And then I'm going to do
the same trick as before,
where I have a hidden
input and that thing
gets sent to the server.
So I'm going to bind this
property month and this day,
separate them by a
slash, and wrap these
all in a nice little down bind
so that the bindings actually
work.
And if you go back to the demo,
put in a birthday as before,
submit it, bam!
Look at that!
We have an argument
called birthday,
and it's in the right format.
The server is happy.
I'm happy.
The form is happy.
I think we got this done.
So that's it.
That's another way that
you can get your forms
to care about custom elements.
Thank you so much for watching.
Hopefully I'll get
to see you again.
I'll talk to Rob to see
if we can do this again.
Please subscribe to the channel.
If you have any
questions, comments below,
or you can find me on
Twitter @notwaldorf.
And that's it.
Bye.
Hi Polycasters, and welcome
to another edition of-- oh no.
This is not another edition.
Hello Poly-- oh [BLEEP].
Don't make me laugh.